[s]	lab	def
spec:analyticalpreparation	Analytical preparation	Specimen is a product of processing required for some observation procedure, e.g. thin section, XRF bead, SEM stub, rock powder. If identified separately, this should have a ‘parent’ link to the original sample
spec:anthropogenicaggregation	Anthropogenic aggregation	Aggregation consists of fragments of material produced by human activity,  not described individually, and generally not all originating from the same object.  Includes pottery in an excavation unit that gets an aggregate description, production waste, production raw-materials, or other residues (broken bits of plaster from an destroyed wall), synthetic powders.
spec:anyaggregation	Any aggregation specimen	Sample consists of a bunch of material fragments, not related to the same object (e.g. not a bunch of broken pot sherds that might be reassembled), but taken together representative of the sampled feature. Examples: loose soil, sediment, crushed rock,  particulate, bunches of unrelated pot sherd, human production waste, filtrates and residues. The sample requires some kind of container to keep it together. Cores of loosely consolidated material are considered 'piece of solid material' because the internal parts have spatial relationships (e.g. upper part, lower part).
spec:artifact	Artifact	An object made (manufactured, shaped, modified) by a human being, or precursor hominid. Include a set of pieces belonging originally to a single object and treated as a single specimen.
spec:biologicalspecimen	Any biological specimen	Specimen for which the sampled feature is one or more living organisms from a particular biome context, megascopic or microscopic
spec:biomeaggregation	Biome aggregation sample	Specimen is an aggregation of whole or fragmentary parts of multiple organisms, microscopic or megascopic, representative of some site.
spec:bundlebiomeaggregation	Bundle biome aggregation	An aggregation of whole organisms representative of some biome
spec:experimentalproduct	Experiment product	Specimen is product of an experimental procedure (e.g. synthetic material)
spec:fluidincontainer	Fluid in container	Specimen is a container whose contents are liquid, gas, or mixed dominantly fluid phases, that is the actual sample material. Fluid might include minor solid particles. Container typically human made, but also includes natural fluid container, e.g. fluid inclusion in a mineral grain.  Includes colloids, foams, gels, suspensions. The sample is the fluid substance; fluid samples collected to analyze the contained biome should be considered 'Biome Aggregation'
spec:fossil	Fossil	Specimen is the remains of one or more organisms preserved in rock; includes whole body, body parts (usually bone or shell), and trace fossils. An organism or organism part becomes a fossil when it has undergone some fossilization process that generally entails physical and chemical changes akin to diagenesis in a sedimentary rock. Includes trace fossils, which are manifestations of biologic activity preserved in a rock body (typically sedimentary), without included preserved body parts.
spec:genericaggregation	Aggregation	An aggregate specimen that is not biogenic or composed of anthropogenic material fragments.  Examples: loose soil or sediment (e.g. in a bag), rock chips, particulate filtrate or precipitate; rock powders.
spec:nonbiologicsolidobject	Non biologic solid object	Individual solid object, not formed directly by or part of a living organism
spec:organismpart	Organism part	Part of an organism, e.g. a tissue sample, plant leaf, flower, bird feather. Include internal parts not composed of organic material (e.g. teeth, bone), and hard body parts that are not shed (hoof, horn, tusk, claw).  Hair is tricky, include here for now.  Does not necessarily imply existance of parent sample. Not fossilized; generally includes organism parts native to deposits of Holocene to Recent age.
spec:organismproduct	Organism product	Specimen is a thing produced by some organism, generally not composed of organic material or including biological tissue, e.g. Shell, antler, egg shell, coral skeleton (organic tissue not included), fecal matter, cocoon, web.  Consider internal parts not composed of organic material (e.g. teeth, bone) and hard body parts that are not shed (hoof, horn, tusk) to be organism parts.
spec:othersolidobject	Other solid object	Single piece of material not one of the other types.
spec:physicalspecimen	Physical specimen	top concept in specimen type hierarchy.  Represents any physical specimen.
spec:researchproduct	Research product	Specimen is a product of some research workflow, e.g. a thin section, an XRF pellet, a grain mount, SEM stub, synthetic rock or mineral ...  In general there should be a link to a parent specimen from which this was derived.  Might be aggregation (e.g. a synthetic material powder) or a solid object.
spec:slurrybiomeaggregation	Slurry biome aggregation	a material that consists of mixed organic and inorganic material, including whole organisms and organism fragments.
spec:solidmaterialspecimen	Solid material specimen	Individual solid object, not formed directly by or part of a living organism, that is representative of some material.
spec:wholeorganism	Whole organism specimen	Specimen consists of the bodies of one or more entire organisms of the same species, from any kingdom. Note that these are also inherently 'solid object'
